just one small cauliflower will be
plenty and this will still give you
quite a lot of puree probably enough
almost four four main course portions
and now we're going to cut these very
simply into little florets little
florets like that will be fine but you
can even just have those and the first
stage is going to be cooking these for
about 10 to 15 minutes in about 25 grams
of butter we must keep this very very
low because I don't really want this to
color I want to keep it very very
natural so we can keep that lovely white
fresh flavor now you'll notice there's
not even a sizzle in the pan we will
actually reach that but we want it to be
very very gentle because if you allow
these to color was then taking on
another flavor and you can hear it now
it's just starting so nice and slow and
let's just give them a little stir now
to help prevent that frying it's always
a good idea just to sit a lid on top and
of course that's going to help create a
steam so it's going to give us that
overall cooking process rather than just
frying on the base notice as well for
this quantity I've used quite a large
saucepan quite high again that helps
create the steam if it's very shallow
then you're going to get more of that
frying technique and that's not what I
want I want these to sort of stew in the
butter while that's happening I'm going
to make a dressing now this one is going
to be just using lots of fresh herbs and
I like to get excited about herbs at
this time of the year because there's so
many coming about tarragon there's flat
parsley some dill chervil and of course
chives just giving us that little oniony
flavor
as with the basil oil heat 100
milliliters of olive oil and 3
tablespoons of ground little until just
warm
don't let the oil get too hot as it'll
overcook the herbs take a tablespoon of
each of the chopped herbs and place in a
liquidizer
saving a level teaspoon for garnishing
pour in the warm one and liquidized to a
smooth puree
before straining through a sieve
if refrigerated this dressing will keep
up to two weeks so again something else
that can be made well in advance let's
go back to our cauliflower here you'll
notice how tender this is becoming as I
squeezed it but that's not quite soft
enough to give us that really smooth
finish that's what will give you that
slightly grainy texture so the next
stage is to add some milk and here I've
got 200 milliliters and now again we're
going to bring that to the simmer nice
and gently and then let it just tick
over for a further 10 to 15 minutes
ready just to puree the whole thing if
it does discolor - don't worry
because once you puree it it comes back
to its brilliant white
now I think at this point we could start
to add some seasoning as it's blitzing
it in so obviously a good sprinkling of
salt and I think some pepper as well but
notice for this I prefer to use just
ground white pepper rather than your
course you don't want those little
granules working through
there's another flavor you can at not
say this is really what I call an
optional extra just a little tiny
squeeze of lemon